[shopsys] Registration of FriendlyUrlDataProviders is now done via service container (#1140)
shopsys/shopsys: docs/introduction/friendly-url.md

# Friendly URL

Shopsys Framework comes with implementation to support custom URLs for entities or other use you might need.
By default there are custom URLs implemented for `Product` detail, `Product` list, `Article` detail and `Brand` detail pages.
Thanks to this functionality you can set your own URL or set of URLs to these entities.
This functionality is stored in `FriendlyUrlDataProvider` classes like `\Shopsys\FrameworkBundle\Model\Product\ProductDetailFriendlyUrlDataProvider`.
This classes implement `FriendlyUrlDataProviderInterface` and are automatically registered in `FriendlyUrlDataProviderRegistry`.
The rest of the work is done automatically and URLs provided by these providers are now accessible via browser.

## How to create new `FriendlyUrlDataProvider`

- create new class with name ending with `FriendlyUrlDataProvider`
- this class has to implement `FriendlyUrlDataProviderInterface`

> - this interface requires you to implement two methods *(see `ProductDetailFriendlyUrlDataProvider` class as example of implementation)*:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- this interface requires you to implement two methods *(see `ProductDetailFriendlyUrlDataProvider` class as an example of the implementation)*:
```

The rest of the work is done automatically and URLs provided by these providers are now accessible via browser.

## How to create new `FriendlyUrlDataProvider`

- create new class with name ending with `FriendlyUrlDataProvider`
- this class has to implement `FriendlyUrlDataProviderInterface`
- this interface requires you to implement two methods *(see `ProductDetailFriendlyUrlDataProvider` class as an example of the implementation)*:
    - `getFriendlyUrlData` method that generates `FriendlyUrlData` for all your entities
    - `getRouteName` method returns name of route that you have to declare in `routing_friendly_url.yml` file like:
        ```
        front_<entity_name>_detail:
            path: friendly-url
            defaults: { _controller: ShopsysShopBundle:Front\<entity_name>:detail }
        ```
        this will route all URLs you have provided in `getFriendlyUrlData` method to `<entity_name>Controller::detailAction` method and provide you with ID of entity matching that URL
        *(see [Symfony Documentation](https://symfony.com/doc/3.4/controller.html) to learn how to create new `Controller`)*
- update your `<entity_name>Facade`:

>     - in `create` and `edit` method behind `$this->em->flush()` add similar code like this `$this->friendlyUrlFacade->createFriendlyUrls('front_<entity_name>_detail', $entity->getId(), $entity->getNames());`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - in `create` and `edit` methods, after calling `$this->em->flush()`, add similar code like this:
     ```
     $this->friendlyUrlFacade->createFriendlyUrls('front_<entity_name>_detail', $entity->getId(), $entity->getNames());
	```
```

>         - third parameter is array `locale` => `text for url generation like product name`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - third parameter is an array of names indexed by locale that will be used for URL generation (e.g. `cs` => 'Televize', `en` => 'Television')
```

>     - this way you will have always generated friendly URLs for your entity name

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - this way you will have always generated friendly URLs based on your entity name
```

        ```
        front_<entity_name>_detail:
            path: friendly-url
            defaults: { _controller: ShopsysShopBundle:Front\<entity_name>:detail }
        ```
        this will route all URLs you have provided in `getFriendlyUrlData` method to `<entity_name>Controller::detailAction` method and provide you with ID of entity matching that URL
        *(see [Symfony Documentation](https://symfony.com/doc/3.4/controller.html) to learn how to create new `Controller`)*
- update your `<entity_name>Facade`:
    - in `create` and `edit` methods, after calling `$this->em->flush()`, add similar code like this:
        ```
        $this->friendlyUrlFacade->createFriendlyUrls('front_<entity_name>_detail', $entity->getId(), $entity->getNames());
        ```
        - third parameter is an array of names indexed by locale that will be used for URL generation (e.g. 'cs' => 'Televize', 'en' => 'Television')
    - this way you will have always generated friendly URLs based on your entity name
        - if the name of the entity will be changed, the old URLs will now redirect to your new URLs
- run `php phing friendly-urls-generate` to generate new URLs

> - visit some of provided URLs and check if everything works fine

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- visit some of provided URLs and check if everything works fine

*Note: You can use [`UrlListType` in your forms](https://github.com/shopsys/shopsys/blob/c943c53cc1ebd0b7f4ae447caa7d5c441d7a5654/docs/introduction/using-form-types.md#urllisttype) edit friendly URLs of existing entities.*
*If you're interested, you can take a look at the processing of `Article` entity, which allows for this functinality.*
```
